Let's finish off this form.
The first thing we have to do is add in some state to keep track of the title and the price that the
user enters to keep track of the state.
We will use the use state hook from React.
So I will import you state.
From React at the top.
Then going to create two different pieces of state.
So first one will be called title.
And the second will be our price.
And I'm going to initialize price as an empty string, even though we really intend for it to be a number.
The reason I'm initializing it as an empty string is just so when the input first shows up, there will
be absolutely nothing inside there, and so that the value will always at least be a string.
Then I'll find the first input.
That's for our title.
So I'm going to wire up an event handler and also set the value on this thing as well.
So its value is going to come from title.
And any time someone makes a change to this, so put in on change, I want to call.
A little callback function.
I'm going to receive the event as abbreviated E and then I'll call set title with E target value.
Well, then save this just to get that thing to wrap around.
Yep.
There we go.
I'm going to repeat the same process for price as well.
Value is going to be price.
And any time someone changes this.
I want to receive that event call set price with e target dot value.
Let's do a quick test.
I don't really expect anything to happen here.
I just want to make sure that if I have my console open, I don't have any errors or anything like that.
So I'll put in some title.
And I'll put in some price.
All right.
Definitely works.
Now, as a quick reminder here, our price, at least for my application, I'm imagining that this is
a price that makes use of US dollars.
So if a user enters a price that looks like this, that doesn't really make a lot of sense.
There is no unit inside of US dollars smaller than the hundredths place.
So really whenever a user enters in a really long decimal, I would really like to just kind of round
it to the nearest cent.
So 0001 should really end up as just 12.00.
Now I would really like to do that formatting right after the user types in a number so that they understand
that I am formatting this thing for them.
They understand that well, they're not going to pay some fraction of a cent or anything like that.
So to put in some automatic formatting.
I'm going to add in an additional event handler to our price input.
I'm going to add in an event handler to watch for the ONLR event.
And any time the blur event occurs, I'm going to call a helper function that I'm going to define at
the top of my component called On Blur.
Now, if you're not familiar with the Blur event, just a very quick aside here, the Blur event is
triggered on an input any time a user clicks into an input and then clicks out.
So specifically when they click out or kind of deselect the input that triggers an event called the
Blur event.
So whenever the user clicks out, I'm then going to do some automatic formatting on that number.
I'm going to define this on blur.
Helper function right above all.
My ex.
So inside of on Blur, I'm going to take a look at the price piece of state.
And I'm going to try to parse the value, make sure that it's some kind of a valid value, like an actual
number, and then do that rounding step to make sure that it doesn't have any decimal places or anything
like that.
So I'm going to take the price that the user entered and assign it to a new variable called value after
passing it through the pass float function.
So this is going to make sure that a user is entering an actual number as opposed to some string of
characters or something like that.
If we call pars, float on a string of characters and we get back some well not number.
It's going to be the value, not a number in JavaScript.
So let me just give you a very quick example of that, because it's kind of confusing if I just say
it with words.
So inside my console really quickly, if I do a parse float on a string of characters, I get back not
a number.
So we should probably check for that and make sure that a user did not enter in, I don't know, just
a bunch of characters here by mistake or something like that.
So let's say if.
Is not a number.
This is a function that is built into JavaScript and it checks for a value being, not a number.
Notice that the capitalization here is capital n.
Lowercase a.
Capital n.
I'll pass in value.
So if we got out, not a number.
Well, I don't want to try to do any of this rounding stuff or anything like that, so I'm just going
to return.
Otherwise, if we get past that check, if a user actually entered a real number here, then I'm going
to go through that rounding step.
So I'm going to call set price to update our price piece of state.
And into set price, I'm going to provide value dot to fixed to that is what it's going to do the actual
rounding step.
So I'm going to save this, look back over and then do a quick test.
If I now enter in 12 00001 and then click out, it rounds it off to just 12 for me.
If I put in 12 dot.
About 019.
I would expect that to get rounded to 12.02.
Yep.
Looks like that works as well.
And then if I just put in a big string like so nothing really bad happens.
Now you might be saying, Stephen, wait, shouldn't we do some validation and tell the user the that
they just put in some invalid input here.
Well remember our back end API is actually going to do some validation for us, so we'll just rely upon
the back end to do that validation step.
I'm just doing the rounding step right here just because well, I want to tell the user as soon as possible
that I'm going to change their price for them.
What if the user entered in some input that is going to just plain fail?
Then I'm going to let the server handle that failure.
So it looks good now that we've got all this state.
Keeping track of all this different states doing that little sanitization step.
This all looks good.
It's not.
The last thing we have to do is make a request to our tickets service to create the new ticket.
It has been a while since we have made a request with next JJ's.
So let's take a look at how we have been handling requests in the past in the next video.